This document contains some simple instructions to configure a 3Com
SuperStack 3 4400 Switch (or similar in the same family) and Windows
XP to demonstrate Radiator Radius authentication for 802.1x wired LAN
access control and accounting.

Last updated 2003-02-26

The 4400 Switch family supports 802.1x EAP authentication for LAN
access. This means that any device that connects to the switch must
successfully authenticate with 802.1x before it can access the LAN.

A number of client computers support this ability, using a range of
authentication methods.  Windows XP (Home and Pro) comes with support
of 802.1x LAN authentication (it also supports 802.1x authentication
of wireless LAN access).  802.1x LAN authentication is available in a
free patch from Microsoft for Windows 2000 and other platforms: See
http://www.microsoft.com/windows2000/server/evaluation/news/bulletins/8021xclient.asp

These instructions will show you how to configure Radiator, a 4400
switch and a windows XP PC to do a demo or proof-of-concept for 802.1x
authenticaiotn of wireless access using MD5-Challenge. Other
authentication methods are supported by Radiator, including TTLS, TLS,
PEAP, etc, but MD5-Challenge is the simplest to get going, so you
should try that first.

You will need to do something 3 devices:
The radius server computer running Radiator (Windows or Unix),
The 4400 switch, and
A Windows XP comnputer that is to connect to the network after authenticating.

We will address these in order:

INSTALL AND CONFIGURE RADIATOR ON UNIX
--------------------------------------

These instructions will work with almost any flavour of Linux or
Unix. You will not need to be root to do this.

1. Ensure you have a recent version of Perl installed. 5.6.0 or later
   is preferred. Most Linux and Unix computers come with a suitable
   version of Perl installed.

2. Download Radiator version 3.5 or later.

3. Unpack it into a working directory (from where we will also run
   it):

$ tar zxvf Radiator-3.5.tgz
$ cd Radiator-3.5

4. Run radiator listening on ports 1645 and 1646, ready for MD5
   challenge requests that will be checked against the 'users' file:

$ perl radiusd -config goodies/eap_md5.cfg -trace 4

5. Radiator will produce some diagnostic output and sit there waiting
   for requests from the switch. Leave it running there.


INSTALL AND CONFIGURE RADIATOR ON WINDOWS
-----------------------------------------

These instructions will work with almost any version of Windows

1. Ensure you have a recent version of ActivePerl from ActiveState
   (www.activestate.com) installed. Version 5.6.1 is currently

2. Download Radiator version 3.5 or later.

3. Unpack it into a working directory (from where we will also run
   it) using WinZip. Unpack it into, say C:\Radiator-3.5

4. Start a Command Prompt window, change to the directory where you
   unpacked Radiator:

C:\ >cd \Radiator-3.5


5. Run radiator listening on ports 1645 and 1646, ready for MD5
   challenge requests that will be checked against the 'users' file:

C:\Radiator-3.5 > perl radiusd -config goodies/eap_md5.cfg -trace 4

6. Radiator will produce some diagnostic output and sit there waiting
   for requests from the switch. Leave it running there.

CONFIGURE THE 4400 SWITCH
-------------------------

You can perform these commands using the web interface, telnet or the
serial port connection. See the 440 manual for details on how to get
connected.

1. In security-radius-authentication-modify:
- Enter the IP address of the radius server in "Primary RADIUS
  Authentication Server IP address:"
- Enter 1645 in "Primary RADIUS Authentication Server UDP port
  number:"
2. In security-radius-authentication-sharedSecret:
- Enter mysecret in "Enter Shared Secret:"
3. In security-radius-accounting-modify:
- Enter the IP address of the radius server in "Primary RADIUS
  Accounting Server IP address:"
- Enter 1646 in "Primary RADIUS Accounting Server UDP port
  number:"
4. In security-network-access-systemMode:
- Set "System Mode" to Enabled.
5. In security-network-access-portSecurity:
- Use the wizard to enable 'Standard Network Login' on the switch port
  where the PC is connected (you can shoose a single port by number,
  or a range of ports. Dont select your uplink port). Choose 'Edge' as
  the port type. Select Port Security Enabled.

CONFIGURE WINDOWS XP
--------------------

This will work with Windows XP Home, Pro and others. XP comes standard
with support for 802.1x authentication of Local Networks.

1. On the 'Network Connections' window, right-click the LAN connection
   to be used to connect to the switch. Select Properties.

2. On the "Local Area Connection Properties" dialog, select 'Show icon
   in notification area when connected'.

3. Ensure the "Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) setting are suitable for
   your network.

4. Select the Authentication tab. Select "Enable IEEE 802.1x
   authentication for this network". Select "MD5-Challenge" in "EAP
   Type" Select "Authenticate as computer when information is
   available". Deselect "Authenticate as guest when computer
   information is unavailable". Click OK.

5. Connect the computer one of the switch ports you enabled for 802.1x
   authentication before. After a short time, you should get a balloon
   saying: "Local Area Connection: Click here to enter your username
   and password for the network". Click on it.

6. A "Local Area Connection" dialog will appear. Enter 'User' as the
   User name, and clientPass as the password (bother are case
   sensitive: make sure you get the case right). Leave "Logon domain"
   blank. Click OK.

7. You will see a lot of output from Radiator on the radius server,
   including dumps of the Radius authentication and accounting
   messages. The Local Area Connection icon on the PC will change to
   "Authentication succeeded". Your PC is now connected to the
   network.

8. You can force reauthentication by disconnecting and reconnecting
   the PC network cable from the switch.


OTHER NOTES
-----------
Radiator comes with example configuration files for a wide range of
802.1x authenticaiton types. See goodies/README in your Radaitor
distribution.

If you wish to run Radiator automatically at boot time on your radius
server, refer to the Radiator Reference Manual in your distribution at
doc\ref.html.


