Latest update 2014-09-03

Introduction

This document is a brief summary of the Radiator support for Micros-Fidelio
Opera Property Management System.

Opera from Micros-Fidelio (http://www.micros.com) is a widely used
Hotel Property Management System (PMS). It provides a database and user
interface for managing hotel rooms and billing guests (among many other things).

Micros-Fidelio have defined an interface (FIAS) and can provide interface
modules for external systems to connect to Opera and interoperate with
it. More details below.

Radiator comes with a module (AuthBy FIDELIO) that interconnects with Opera
through FIAS and can be used for RADIUS authentication of hotel guests and
posting accounting costs to Opera. Customisations of that module and hooks can
be used to implement a wide variety of authentication and billing
schemes. Radiator comes with one such scheme for providing pre-paid internet
accesss through Mikrotik Wireless Hotspot Access Point/Captive Portal routers,
with billing direct to guest rooms. These topics are discussed further below.

Interface to Opera

Radiator supports the current Micros-Fidelio FIAS interface specification,
over a TCP/IP network, a serial port or a USB-serial port.

The standard Radiator AuthBy FIDELIO module connects to Opera through FIAS,
gets the contents of the Opera room/guest database and then uses its local
copy of the room/guest database to authenticate RADIUS Access Requests. RADIUS
Accounting Requests are sent to Opera as PS records. It is available as full
source.

Underlying all this is a generic full source FIAS interface module. It is used
by the AuthBy FIDELIO module to talk to Opera, interrogate the Opera database,
send postings etc. It can be used by other modules or custom code to interact
with Opera, send accounting postings etc. It provides keepalives, error
detection and much more low level interface mechanics.

In order to connect Radiator (or any other third party system) to Opera, it is
necessary to enable the appropriate interface support module in Opera. This is
generally done by Micros-Fidelio at the request of the Opera licensee, and
will generally incur a charge from them. Discuss this with your Micros-Fidelio
agent.

Note: When the interface is enabled, Opera must be configured to allow
full database resync when requested by Radiator. If Radiator receives
no records during the database resync, it will log a warning to remind
about the possibly misconfigured interface.

The information required by Opera customers to order the Radiator interface
from Micros-Fidelio is:

FKT Logo is RRA and the Part Number is 5009-170

More information about Micros-Fidelio Certified interfaces can be found at:

http://www.micros.com/NR/rdonlyres/E2FF5FCB-3DF7-461B-8A30-EC4FC8C84E7D/0/CurrentCertifiedInterfacesListExternal.pdf

AuthBy FIDELIO

The AuthBy FIDELIO comes standard with Radiator. As mentioned above it
operates by connecting to Opera through FIAS either over a network or a serial
port. Upon connecting, it retrieves a copy of the relevant parts of the Opera
database about what rooms are in the hotel, and which guests occupy each
room. Therafter, whenever guests check in or out, Opera sends updates to
Radiator, and Radiator keeps track of which guest(s) are currently in each room.

When a RADIUS authentication request is received by Radiator AuthBy FIDELIO,
it looks in the local copy of the guest database. The default behaviour is to
authenticate guests using their Room Number as the User-Name and their
Guest Number as their password (this is configurable). By default, RADIUS
Accounting Stops generate Opera PS simple postings. (This can be also be
changed and configured).

By default, accounting postings are sent to Opera following receipt of a
RADIUS Accounting-Stop. The default PS record will contain:

P# automatically generated posting sequence number, starting at 1.
TA the cost computed by ComputeCostHook or CentsPerSecond.
DU the call duration in seconds.
PT fixed value of `C' (Direct Charge).
SO fixed value of `Internet connection'.
DD Called-Station-Id from the incoming request, with any non-digit characters stripped out.

Additional fields can be added to the Opera posting record with the
PostingExtraFields parameter.

Mikrotik Hotspot support

Radiator also comes with a sample configuration that turns Radiator and Opera
into the authentication and billing engine for Mikrotik Wireless
Hotspots. Mikrotik is a widely used Access Point/Router/Hotspot/ Captive
Portal software that can be used on common PC hardware. It is widely
configurable and well suported.

In the sample Radiator configuration, hotel guests are able to connect
wirelessly (or wired) to Mikrotik Wireless Hotspot Access Points and are
able to purchase internet access in fixed time blocks of, say 24
hours. Radiator posts the charges to Opera for billing direct to the
guest. Radiator uses a MySQL database to keep track of which guesst have paid
for access and wehen their access expires. If the user desires access after
their access is expired, Mikrotik prompts them to log in again and a new
access charge is generated by Radiator and sent to Opera.

Optional parameters permit guests who have purhchased access to have some
grace time after check out. Other options also permit multiple (separately
billed) guests per room.

Opera+Radiator+Mikrotik allows you to quickly and easily build a complete
Internet access and guest billing system for hotels and other similar
properties.
